# PasswordStrengthChecker

**Description:** The PasswordChecker class contains two methods useful for checking the strength of user passwords: PasswordChecker.CheckStrength() and PasswordChecker.GetStrengthScore(). PasswordChecker.GetStrengthScore() computes a numerical score for the strength of a password (where higher is stronger and lower is weaker) based off the number of letters, digits, and special characters in the password. PasswordChecker.CheckStrength() determines if the password is strong (true) or weak (false) by computing the password's strength score and using a score of 250 as a baseline threshold for a strong password.

**Installation/Usage:** The PasswordChecker can be easily installed by forking this repository and using the directions above to implement it into your program or application. An example usage for this tool is when a user is signing up for an application by making an account, PasswordChecker.CheckStrength() can be used to check that they are creating an account with a strong password.

**Limitations:** This tool is designed only to check that passwords follow general password making principles such as containing a mix of letters, digits, and special characters. It does not ensure that the password is entirely secure against motivated malicious parties.

**Responsible Use:** Just because this tool says a password is strong, it does not necessarily mean it is secure. Some guidelines for making a secure password: do not use any personally identifying information, passwords should not be easily guessable, do not store passwords in someplace accesible to others, and change passwords often. The afformentioned guidelines are all things that this password checker does not have the capacity to check for. Accept the limitations of this tool (stated above) and use it responsibly.
